---
layout: post
title:  "Windcrest FOTP 501(c)(3) qualified"
categories: news
excerpt: FOTP 501(c)(3) status
image: /images/FOTP website\FOTP website, new\Images, new/irs.jpg
---

### Email from Don Myles, April 20, 2014:

Greetings, fellow Board Members: 

I’m pleased and happy to announce that this past weekend I received official notification from the IRS that FOTP is “exempt from federal income tax under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 501(c)(3).”  

Some of the key consequences of this exemption/classification are:  
1) “donors can deduct contributions they make to FOTP under IRC Section 170;” and 
2) FOTP is “qualified to receive tax deductible bequests, devises, transfers or gifts under Section 2055, 2106, or 2522.”  

Also, “organizations exempt under IRC Section 501(c)(3) are further classified as either public charities or private foundations.”  The IRS determined that FOTP is a “public charity under IRC Section 509(a)(2).”

This classification will enable FOTP to now apply for a grant from Rackspace.  

Along with the IRS Classification Approval Letter came a 30 page Compliance Guide Pamphlet for 501(c)(3) Public Charities which I will be reading and digesting in the next few days, so we/FOTP do not make any mistakes in complying with our exempt and charity classification.  

FOTP does not become exempt from State of TX sales taxes until I complete and submit the required application and documents to the TX Comptroller’s Office for exemption approval.  Once we have this approval, which should take about 10 days from the time of submission of the application, we can be free from paying State sales tax.  I will work on this application this week.

At our next Board Meeting, I will provide all of you copies of the IRS letter that I received.  Will do the same when I receive the approval documents from the State Comptroller’s Office.

-- Donald Myles, Treasurer, Windcrest Friends of the Park




Never a dull moment with/in FOTP!  Good night and will talk to you later.




Don M.

